---
layout: post
title: "Vue.JS Meetup"
date: 2018-02-04
categories: ["Events"]
tags: ["Vue.JS", "JavaScript"]
author: Darshil Bhatt
---

Looking at increasing interest of developers in building creative user interfaces(UI), in Feb 2018 [GDG Baroda](https://gdgbaroda.com/) oraganized meetup on [Vue.JS](https://vuejs.org/) which is JavaScript framework for building different types of UIs. When attendees got confirmation for this meetup, they were really excited, as they were going to learn something new & creative in this meetup. This meetup was lead by GDG Baroda co-organizer [Manan Jadhav](https://twitter.com/curosmj), as a speaker for meetup. Meetup began in the rocking way with introduction to Vue.JS.

### What is Vue.JS?
Vue.js (commonly referred to as Vue) is an open-source JavaScript framework for building user interfaces. Integration into projects that use other JavaScript libraries is simplified with Vue because it is designed to be incrementally adoptable. Vue can also function as a web application framework capable of powering advanced single-page applications. Vue.js is a popular JavaScript front-end framework that was built to organize and simplify web development.The project focuses on making ideas in web UI development (components, declarative UI, hot-reloading, time-travel debugging, etc.) more approachable. It attempts to be less opinionated and thus easier for developers to pick up. It features an incrementally adoptable architecture. The core library focuses on declarative rendering and component composition and can be embedded into existing pages. Advanced features required for complex applications such as routing, state management and build tooling are offered via officially maintained supporting libraries and packages. Vue uses an HTML-based template syntax that allows you to declaratively bind the rendered DOM to the underlying Vue instance’s data. Attendees performed hands-on demo on Vue.JS by which they came to know how it actually works. For demo, [click here](https://github.com/CurosMJ/vue-demos).

### Why Vue.JS?
It provides:-

#### Simplicity
Adding Vue to an existing web project is relatively simple. You can start coding very quickly without having to know anything about JSX, ES2015, or build systems to get started. As long as you are familiar with HTML and JavaScript, you can read their guide and build something basic within a day, which is a big advantage in a fast-paced development team where you may have to pick up something quickly.

#### Flexibility
With Vue, you can write an app very quickly and run it straight from the browser, or you can build a complex application using ES6, JSX, components, routing, bundling etc if you want to.It can handle the many different ways in which you might want to use it. It is also flexible enough that it accommodates for different ways of writing your code, for example, you can write a template in HTML, or in Javascript, or you can use JSX.It gives you the freedom to structure your application in a way that suits you, there is no right way.

#### Comprehensive documentation
The Vue documentation is very detailed, easy to understand, and includes various code examples. It also has a good, growing community of developers that can offer help when needed.

#### Can be used for simple and complex applications
For larger, more complex applications you can use Vuex for state management and routing. A key difference between using Vuex and using Redux/Flux with React for example, is that Vue’s companion libraries are officially supported and kept up to date with the core library. Redux and Flux came from the React community and is not tied to React.

#### Transition effects
During the transition process, Vue adds and removes classes on components/elements. It has 6 different classes which you can then customise in Sass to handle timing, and the start/ end styles of the transition.

#### It is fun!
Attendees personally had so much fun learning to use Vue. Coding can be frustrating at times, but with Vue whenever one can learn how to do something new it is exciting. They have made learning a JavaScript framework incredibly enjoyable and rewarding.

### Advantages of Vue.JS
Following are the advantages of using Vue.js technology in web development.

* Very Small Size

The success of JavaScript framework depends on its size. The smaller the size is, the more it will be used. One of the greatest advantages of Vue.js is its small size. The size of this framework is 18–21KB and it takes no time for the user to download and use it. This does not mean that it has low speed because of small size. Instead, it beats all the bulky frameworks like React.js, Angular.js, and Ember.js.

* Easy to Understand and Develop Applications

One of the reasons for the popularity of this framework is that it is quite easy to understand. The user can easily add Vue.js to his web project because of its simple structure. Both the small as well as large scales templates can be developed through this framework which saves a lot of time. In case of any problem, the user can easily trace the blocks with errors. All this is because of its simple structure.

* Simple Integration

Vue.js is also popular among the web developers because it facilitates them to integrate with the existing applications. This is because it is based on JavaScript framework and can be integrated into other applications built on JavaScript. This means that it is useful for developing new web applications as well as altering the pre-existing applications. This integration is possible because Vue.js has components for everything.

* Detailed Documentation

Developers always like to use the framework with detailed documentation because it is always easy for them to write their first application. The documentation with Vue.js is so comprehensive that any user who knows a little about JavaScript and HTML can develop his own application or web page.

* Two-Way Communication

And last but not least Vue.js also facilitates two way communications because of its MVVM architecture which makes it quite easy to handle HTML blocks. In this respect, it seems very close to Angular.js which also speeds up HTML blocks.

In the end, we can say that Vue.js has clear advantages over all the earlier frameworks like Angular.js and React.js. In short, it combines the peculiar features of all the older frameworks.

Enthusiasts always learn with fun & joy when it comes about [GDG Baroda](https://gdgbaroda.com/).

That's it for today's post. We'll continue our journey in upcoming post.
