# International Women's Day (IWD)

### Keynote:
#### Speaker: Mamta Gelanee
The day dedicated to the wonderful women, International Women’s Day (IWD) began with a keynote sharing a brief description of the events stacked for the day including Women entrepreneurship and empowerment, data science stuff and many more informative sessions.

### Women entrepreneurship and empowerment:
#### Speaker: Leena Patel
The live example of a women entrepreneur, Ms Leena Patel shared her story which encouraged many women to never give up and be fearless to start executing their dreams. She concluded with “what would people say” is the biggest hurdle on the way.

### Data science what and why?
#### Speaker: Dhruv Apte
This session was all about what exactly data science is and its current practical uses. How this technology is useful in dealing with data. On the top of that Dhruv also recommended some of the important courses to go through to dig deeper. They were:
* Harvard CS 109 course in Data Science
* Deep Learning Course on Udacity
* Andrew's Machine Learning course on coursera

### Women In Silicon Valley:
#### Speaker: Darshil Bhatt
There was a brief description on lack of women in tech as compared to men. This leaves them in minority which is not a good sign. Darshil proposed many ways to empower them and generate more participation to overcome gender inequality.

### Dream it, Do it:
#### Speaker: Saurabhi Jain
This one started with Saurabhi’s story of becoming an entrepreneur. She mentioned her dedication until her illusion became reality. This one was the major highlight of the whole event which gave a role model to the female audience.

### We>men
#### Speaker: Daniel Phiri
Daniel basically pointed towards the gender inequality in our society, and how today’s women have overcome male dominance in every field. He also included how women are becoming self- dependent and working on execution of their dream to become what they desire to be.

##### At the cease we had a really persuasive session hosted by Mamta Gelanee which encouraged people to be the part of community, she pointed towards the pros of being more social which  included:

* ##### Having a large network
* ##### Learning new stuff
* ##### Helping Each other
* ##### A competitive environment

And much more...

Hence if we conclude we had successful meet IWD which may be the milestone for the female audiences. Everybody had a great time meeting new people and building a true inseparable bond with the people never thought of and achieving stuff never dreamt of.  
